# CarCostCalc
#### Description:

CarCostCalc is a program that makes it easier for users to understand the costs associated with purchasing a new car. In summary, it offers the ability for the user to save text files containing the MSRP and mileage data of vehicles that are fetched and stored in the program, while allowing the user to determine which model has the cheapest operating cost over a specified period of driving, which the user has to input.

When run, the program greets the user with a selection of vehicles, prompting them to select one by typing in the number that matches the respective car. Once chosen, the program will display the selected car's MPG, MSRP (In USD), and name. It acquires the MPG by fetching the API data from [FuelEconomy.gov](https://fueleconomy.gov/feg/ws/), providing the official fuel economy data of vehicles to determine the chosen vehicle's combined MPG, while also having it converted to different units to ensure broader readability (Ex, litres/100 km). The user will then be asked if they want to save the data; once saved, the data is then written onto a 'txt' file named as the chosen vehicle's name, with all of the data saved. The user will then be prompted with 3 choices after: 1: Compare the Saved Vehicles, 2: Reset List, 3: Continue Searching.

'Continue Searching' will prompt the vehicles once again, but the vehicles that were selected previously will be unavailable to be chosen. Every time the user selects and saves a car, the program creates a list that records the number of the vehicle that was saved. This avoids the redundancy of selecting the same vehicle when it has already been saved before. 'Reset List' will remove all of the files that contain the selected vehicles, while resetting the list of selected cars, redirecting the user back to the welcome screen to start with a fresh new list if desired. 'Analyze the Saved Vehicles’ is a feature in the program that first asks the user for their weekly driving distance and the period of ownership (In years). When asked for the user's weekly driving distance, it gives the user options to enter in either miles or kilometres to ensure that users who use different kinds of units can all properly enter a distance. The program with the user's weekly driving distance and period of ownership can now calculate the car with the cheapest MSRP in the pool of selected vehicles, as well as which car has the cheapest fuel costs in the period. All of the calculated data is saved into a text file called "summary.txt". Going back to unit readability for users, the program writes down the cost in CAD and USD, by using another API from [Frankfurter API](https://www.frankfurter.app), a free foreign exchange rates API powered by the European Central Bank, so that the prices are always updated to the correct value regardless of the date or time.

There are plans to further develop the program by improving its practicality while adding features to sort vehicles by classes once more are added, (Ex. SUVs, Sedan, Hatchback, etc). 
